so I remember this one time with Tara it
was maybe like four years in the
relationship and she came home and she
was pissed at me I mean she was she was
doing some acting in LA and she had a
show and I didn't come to the show and
she came in and was just like furious at
me and I in my mind I was like oh this
is this is true for
her like this is how she sees the world
it doesn't have to be mine it's
hers and so I could just be there and
like have an open heart and listen to
her and hear her
story and and with the recognition like
this is like important to her this is
true for her this is this is
real and I could just have this massive
amount of compassion so I just listened
I was just there and I was just
understanding and I could say I'm sorry
and I said I was sorry
and it just all melted inside of like 10
minutes what used to be hours of
fighting you know like like maybe even a
day of fighting because what would
happen is that she would tell me her
story and I would think this has to be
true or not true and if it was true then
I did something
wrong and if it was not true then she
did something wrong cuz she's yelling at
me right and so then I was was in this
world where one of us had to do
something wrong and the trick was oh all
I have to actually do is just see that
this is actually what's important to her
that this is the way she sees the world
and that's not wrong or right it's just
that truth that's hers and so when I
learned that it like it changed
everything and then we both learned it
and it just changed everything in our
relationship because all of a sudden it
wasn't a about trying to figure out like
we weren't
adjudicating life anymore there we used
to have this phrase and it was like hey
let's not go into the courtroom like
courtroom was like to figure out who
like who had done what and what the
truth was it's like no there's just like
this is the way you see reality this is
the way I see reality and how do we want
to see reality together how how do we
want to be
together even if you continue to see it
this way and I continue to see it that
way
right and so there was things in our
relationship that we would just agree oh
this is the way I see it this is the way
you see it but what we never did was we
never said and because we see it that
way then you have to be this way or I
have to be that way because it was
really important what we never really
wanted to do was to
compromise in that way where we had to
be something besides ourselves to be
loved by one another if you're looking
for like what the truth is instead of
trying to understand the other person's
truth and what their reality is then you
miss each other there's no connection
there nobody has ever said once I find
the truth of this relationship then the
relationship will be happy that's not
how it works but everybody says I would
love to be seen I would love to be
understood I would love to be connected
with as I
am and so finding the truth doesn't help
the relationship finding the other
person's truth understanding it it
doesn't mean you compromise yourself it
doesn't mean that you change your
actions it's just saying I understand
you I get how that's the
case and then they can immediately do
the same for you if they want to and
what I notice is that when two people
are in a fight this is such a critical
thing two people in a fight what both
want is to be seen both of them want to
feel seen and what they're usually doing
is they're just throwing shame at each
other they're like you're wrong you're
wrong you're wrong you're wrong you're
wrong you're wrong and what they're
saying is I want to be seen I want to be
seen I want to be seen if you want to
end a fight just sit down and see their
truth connect with where they're at to
do that you can't take the blame and the
way you do that is to say this is their
story I'm I'm here to understand them
I'm not here to see if I'm wrong or if
they're wrong if I'm bad they're bad the
truth and how we're going to adjudicate
the truth it's just I want to see them
and fully understand where they're at
that's the first step and as soon as
someone feels seen almost almost
immediately they want to see the other
person and so the fight just almost
instantaneously resolves
[Music]